= How To Handle Time Zone With Log Analysis
:imagesdir: ../resources/
ifdef::env-github,env-browser[:outfilesuffix: .adoc]

== Overview

The MSActivator provides syslog collection, analysis and indexing with
its link:../Assurance/log-analysis.adoc[Log Analysis] module. The
syslogs collecting and analysing module of the MSActivator parses the
syslogs to extract the fields that will be stored and indexed in
Elasticsearch. Because not every device sends its time zone
configuration in their syslogs, the MSA doesn't extract time zone
information, and therefore the extracts the syslog date without any time
zone related information. By default, the MSActivator assigns the GMT
time zone to the syslogs. A potential issue is that if the sending
device is not in GMT, its syslogs will be incorrectly indexed and the
link:../Assurance/log-analysis.adoc[Log Analysis] module will show
inaccurate results.

The picture below illustrates this case with a Cisco ASA security syslog
(field "rawlog") without any time zone information. Note the field
"date" shows "+0000" as the default time zone.

link:[image:images/image2018-4-11_11-38-55.png[Image,width=800]]

== Configure a Global Default time zone

When all devices managed by the MSActivator are in the same time zone,
it is possible to set a global default time zone for the syslogs. This
configuration is done using the MSActivator CLI base Configuration Tool:

....
UBIqube SOC Configuration Menu → SEC Engine configuration → SEC Engine syslog configuration → Default time zone offset for received syslogs
....

Change the default value +0000 to another value (user selected), i.e.
+0900, and reconfigure the SecEgine

Once configured with the new default time zone, the syslogs will be
indexed with +0900 (or other user selected time). This change can be
seen in the field "date" below:

link:[image:images/image2018-4-11_17-31-6.png[Image,width=800]]

== Configure a time zone for a Specific Device

If your managed devices are configured with various time zones, then you
need to configure the time zone specifically for each devices.

This can be done by implementing a
link:../Configuration/Microservices/getting-started-developing-microservices.adoc[Microservice]
with a parameter *$param.timezone* that will take the value of the time
zone needed to add to the syslogs.

With the configuration below:

link:[image:images/image2018-4-24_18-3-44.png[Image,width=800]]

The syslogs get localized to the time zone GMT-0020.

link:[image:images/image2018-4-24_18-4-57.png[Image,width=800]]

NOTE: Important

The Microservice must be defined in a file *system.xml*

You can find a simple example on Github at
https://github.com/openmsa/Workflows-Microservices/tree/master/MICROSERVICES/CISCO
.

This example allows you to configure the time zone to set on the
syslogs. It can be extended with a full implementation of
IMPORT/CREATE/... to synchronize the time zone between the MSActivator
and the device.
