= Monitoring Profile
:imagesdir: ../resources/
ifdef::env-github,env-browser[:outfilesuffix: .adoc]

[[main-content]]
The MSActivator has SNMP-based monitoring capabilities and provides an
easy way to monitor KPI, plot KPI data on graphs, and configure alarms
based on threshold crossing.

Monitoring is configured using monitoring profiles that aggregate the
KPI to monitor the definition of the graphs and thresholds (defined by
MIB and OID).

[[MonitoringProfile-CreateaNewMonitoringProfile]]
== Create a New Monitoring Profile

The scope of a monitoring profile is the customer tenant. A monitoring
profile can be used to monitor several devices.

To create a new monitoring profile, click
image:images/image2018-4-5_17-52-58.png[Image,width=24]  (top right on
the Customer page) and select "Monitoring Profile".

[[MonitoringProfile-ConfigureKPIandAlerting]]
=== Configure KPI and Alerting

link:[image:images/image2018-4-5_17-56-24.png[Image,width=800]]

Provide a name for the profile and add your KPIs.

It is important to select the correct "Type" (counter or gauge) for the
OID. The type is defined in the MIB you are using.

The selection of the polling frequency is also key when scaling, because
polling a large number of KPIs on a large number of devices has impacts
on the MSActivator resources (CPU, Memory, Disk). Be sure to select an
appropriate polling frequency.

The threshold configuration can be used to configure alarms that are
generated when the KPI goes over or under a predefined value. Select
"never" to deactivate alarms for a KPI.

Learn how to configure alarms with the
link:../Assurance/alarm-management.adoc[Alarm Management] guide.

[[MonitoringProfile-DefineGraphsandRendering]]
=== Define Graphs and Rendering

link:[image:images/image2018-4-5_18-3-4.png[Image,width=800]]

[[MonitoringProfile-MonitorYourKPI]]
=== Monitor Your KPI 

In order to monitor your KPI, you need to associate a monitoring profile
to a link:../Getting_Started/managed-devices.adoc[Managed Device].

Select the 'PROFILES' tab on the Customer page to list the monitoring
profiles.

link:[image:images/image2018-4-9_9-40-2.png[Image,width=800]]

Click image:images/image2018-4-9_9-41-50.png[image,width=20]  to select
the dialog to associate a monitoring profile to a managed device.

Once the monitoring profile is associated with the managed device, the
monitoring module of the MSActivator will start polling the KPIs and
will record the values in its KPI database.

link:[image:images/image2018-4-9_10-2-6.png[Image,width=800]]

[[MonitoringProfile-VideoTutorial]]
==== Video Tutorial

video::videos/MSActivator-16.2-Creating-a-Monitoring-Profile.mp4[image,width=500,height=380]
