= Configure Behavior For User Inputs In A Workflow Form
:imagesdir: ../resources/
ifdef::env-github,env-browser[:outfilesuffix: .adoc]

[[main-content]]
The main purpose for adding behaviour to a Workflow web form is to
address the use case in which the user form changes based on the value
of one (or more) variables called the selector.

link:[image:images/Diapositive1.jpg[Image,width=800]]

In this case, the variable "Type" has 3 possible values, "subnet",
"FQDN" and "ip range". For each type, the web form show specific form
fields.

Where the type is "subnet":

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_15-39-26.png[Image,width=800]]

Where the type is "FQDN":

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_15-40-11.png[Image,width=800]]

Where the type is "ip range":

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_15-40-50.png[Image,width=800]]

In order to implement this behaviour, we have to use the variable type
"Composite". This allows us to link the value of a variable to the
behaviour (visible or not, mandatory or not,...) of another variable.

The *first step* in creating this form is to produce a Workflow with all
the variables.

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_15-50-40.png[Image,width=800]]

The variable $params.type must be a string with a default value and a
list of predefined values. It should be set as mandatory and adding free
values should not be allowed.

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_15-53-7.png[Image,width=800]]

The *next step* is to configure each composite variable to define their
behaviour based on a selector variable.

For example, the variable $params.FQDN should be visible and mandatory
only if the value of $params.type is "FQDN".

In the section "Type" below, when the type is set to Composite, a
Selector variable field is available to choose which variable is going
to be used as the driver for selecting the behaviour of the other
variables.

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_16-7-33.png[Image,width=800]]

The selector values will also have to be listed and for each value. The
advanced parameters (image:images/servers_view.gif[image,height=16])
should be edited to set the display name, the visibility, whether the
variable is mandatory or not, etc.

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_16-17-27.png[Image,width=800]]

Once each of the composite variables are configured, the user web form
will behave as described.

It is also possible to link the behaviour of a variable to a selector
with a boolean type, as in the example below, where the variable
$params.abc (which is a composite) is hidden when the value of
$params.show_var_ABC is set to false, and shown when
$params.show_var_ABC is set to true.

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_16-26-52.png[Image,width=800]]

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_16-27-57.png[Image,width=800]]

The user form will look like this:

link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_16-34-6.png[Image,width=400]] or
link:[image:images/image2019-3-22_16-34-44.png[Image,width=800]]
